## Purpose

---

You could be dead in the next 60 seconds. How do you know if one of your brain arteries isn't about to rupture, thus flooding it with blood and shutting it down forever?

Also, as most people perceive, you WILL be dead in a matter of, let's say, 60 years if you are in your 20s right now.

So, let's conduct a mental experiment. Sixty years from now, you are lying on a soft bed in your family home. It's an early morning, so everything and everyone is just waking up. You can hear the birds start chirping; gentle rays of sunlight start to plant soft morning kisses on your forehead and cheeks, deflecting off the drops of morning dew on your window. Suddenly, you feel something is not right. A sharp pain, like a dagger and then like a hit from a bat, covers your chest. You get the chills, feel sweat emerging from almost every inch of your body, and you want to scream. You open your mouth, but it seems that you just can't produce a single sound. Seconds later, that's it.

No matter if you have seen all of your life flashing before your eyes or not, that's it. You literally do not exist anymore.

And - depending on your religion and beliefs - you may think you will go to different places. It's good to be spiritual. But I'm cautiously spiritual about this. I truly want to believe that I would see heaven, a game over screen, or at least something cool. But I also understand that there's a good chance of two other things happening: you see nothing, or you suffer eternally.

Of course, if you don't see anything, you wouldn't care about it at that point. You will be gone as if you had never existed, in case you see nothing (even if you are a good family member or an enormously important historical figure, remember, humanity will cease to exist from your point of view if you don't see anything after death). And the whole world that you now know will, of course, be gone and will have never existed as well (from your perspective).

So, that thought is quite amazing for several reasons:

1. It does not depend on any external knowledge or beliefs, which could or could not, in fact, be true (like religion).
2. It gives you an ability to not worry about death because, in that case, nothing has ever existed (from your perspective).
3. It gives you the will to take immense risks.

But don't start turning your life into a GTA 5 game yet. There's a probability that this thought is, in fact, incorrect. What if you see something in the end that you DON'T actually like?

What if your consciousness actually goes somewhere, and you are still able to process information and "feel" (still information processing, by the way, but on a deeper level) something that you don't like?

And that's how we are getting to the idea of the sole and ultimate risk everyone is taking.

There's actually only one decision every person makes in their lives which involves real risk - the decision about what you truly believe happens when you die.

Every other decision is nothing compared to this one in terms of risk, and, most importantly, in terms of setting your direction.

I think most people never make this decision. Because, if you see something that you don't like after you die (something like hell and its deviations), how can you not work on extending your days here, in this reality?

Well, the answer is quite clear - people usually start thinking about stuff when reality hits. Not in advance, but when the deadline approaches. And it's fine for college assignments or whatever, but thinking about the biggest decision of your life is a good activity to get done before you are an old person regretting 90% of their life.

So, here's a quick guide on what to do when you make your decision:

1. If you sincerely believe in heaven/rebirth or something else religious, please read the book of your religion and follow the guidelines from there. But read it thoroughly and commit to it.
2. If you think that you would see a black screen (and truly believe in it), do whatever you want, though I believe you will be in prison in 2-3 months.
3. If you want to lower the risks of seeing something bad in the end, then you gotta understand that someone has to invent a therapy or machine to extend your life indefinitely. Then, when it gets solved, you have to start researching whether there's a way to battle the heat death of the universe. If you solve that, only then can you relax and think about what to do later.
4. If you have your own view on what you will see in the end, THOROUGHLY think it through: what happens a nanosecond after your last neuron fires, what happens a minute, a day, a year, a decade, a billion years after this. Imagine it in every single detail and stick to it.

If you don't do one of those (the main point is to truly commit to your belief about what's going to happen when you die), then you are not a serious person, I'm sorry. The good thing about being a serious person is that, if you die, you have a better chance to die happy. Oh, by the way, fans of Stoicism are probably raging at this point. The issue with Stoicism is that it perceived death as inevitable and, hence, disregarded it. Given the high probability of death back then and no ideas how to solve it, Stoicism made sense to stay mentally sane (it's akin to witnessing a nuke descending from the sky and coming to terms with it). Now, the chances of significantly increasing your life expectancy are much better, so Stoicism still makes sense, but not for serious people. Serious people understand that, yes, a whole bunch of things are not under our control, and only some of our actions and perceptions are. But the cool part is - the direction in which you steer yourself and what you do are also under your control (at least partly), so why not take advantage of it and challenge fate not just by being resistant to it, but by being its author? We have never been closer to gaining control over it, and while some may think it's impossible, I'd say it's inevitable. The fact that we have drugs, by the way, is a testament to the small first steps we are taking to control our fate. And while previously, people didn't ponder death and its aftermath because it seemed inevitable, like prisoners focusing on simple daily routines, now people have much more choice, simply because the window of opportunity has opened.
But the good thing about this decision is this: it maps, or exactly defines, your purpose. So, when someone asks what the purpose in life is and how to find it, the only good method is to choose what you believe happens after you die. And that's MUCH easier to do.

And remember, whatever you choose, always have fun (only if you don't believe that having fun will get you to hell or its derivatives). Otherwise, not having fun is illogical and dumb (because no one else but you defines what is fun, believe me or not).